# Microsoft Discovery Release Updates 2602.1

### Release Date
Feb 17 2026

## Summary
**Release 2602.1** focuses on continued platform stabilization, reliability improvements, and incremental refinements across the Microsoft Discovery experience.


## What's New (Key Product Features)

[**Microsoft Discovery Bookshelf**](https://github.com/microsoft/discovery/blob/main/3-concepts/bookshelf.md)

#### Improvements and Enhancements
* New Bookshelf deployments leverage GPT 4.1
* New Bookshelf deployments can index up to 500MB of text by default and offer a tag to configure smaller indexing deployment configurations 
    * Please see the documentation for details on configuration requirements and recommendations. 


[**Microsoft Discovery Studio v2**](https://github.com/microsoft/discovery/blob/main/4-how-to/10-discovery-studio-preview-experience/a--preview-experience.md)

#### Improvements and Enhancements
* Redesigned the Welcome Page with improved design and theming, making it easier for new users to begin their discovery journey. Improved project creation flow with integrated live log updates

## Known Limitations and Issues
* Plan confirmation is not available in the 2602.1 release. Users will not receive a confirmation prompt in the Studio UI. A fix is planned for the 2602.2 release
* Discover mode will be disabled in 2602.1 release. User will not be able to use discovery engine; it will be available again in 2603.1 release
* There was a regression in version 2601.2 where not all parameters specified in the tool definition were properly passed during tool execution. This caused failures for tools that require customized parameters. This issue has now been fixed in this 2602.1 release


## Recommendations
* We observed several “Server error from AI Foundry” IcMs in the 2.1 release. A known AI Foundry issue can be triggered when Unicode characters are included in variables or agent instructions. As a mitigation, replace those characters with ASCII or UTF-8 encoded characters. For more details, see the [public documentation](https://github.com/microsoft/discovery/blob/main/4-how-to/6-tools-models-agents/agents-publishing/a--create-agent-definition.md#yaml-schema-for-agent-definition). 

    To help prevent this issue, additional validation has been added when creating control plane resources in 2.1 release. If you encounter errors during resource creation, please review and update your character encoding
* GPT-4.1 is used by the Bookshelf service in the 2602.1 release, which may lead to higher costs when processing large data volumes. We recommend using smaller datasets (under 100 MB text files). In the public preview, GPT-4.1 will be replaced with GPT-5-mini to improve cost efficiency
* One (1) Knowledge Base per Bookshelf is recommended for all newly deployed Bookshelves, but there is no limit on the number of Bookshelves that can be created


## Breaking Changes
* None known at the time of posting